# 27. Remove Element <Badge type="tip" text="Easy" />

Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `val`, remove all occurrences of `val` in `nums` **in-place**. The order of the elements may be changed. Then return the number of elements in `nums` which are not equal to `val`.

Consider the number of elements in `nums` which are not equal to `val` be `k`, to get accepted, you need to do the following things:

- Change the array `nums` such that the first `k` elements of `nums` contain the elements which are not equal to `val`. The remaining elements of `nums` are not important as well as the size of `nums`.
- Return `k`.

> Example 1:  
Input: nums = [3,2,2,3], val = 3  
Output: 2, nums = [2,2,_,_]  
Explanation: Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 2.  
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

> Example 2:  
Input: nums = [0,1,2,2,3,0,4,2], val = 2  
Output: 5, nums = [0,1,4,0,3,_,_,_]  
Explanation: Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums containing 0, 0, 1, 3, and 4.  
Note that the five elements can be returned in any order.  
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

## Approach

**Input**: An array `nums` and a value `val`

**Output**: Remove all elements equal to `val` in-place, and return the number of elements different from `val`

This is an **in-place modification two pointers** problem.

We can use one pointer `i` to scan the original array, and a pointer `k` to modify the original array and record how many numbers are not equal to `val`.

When we find `nums[i] != val`, we set `nums[k] = nums[i]` and advance the position of `k` by `k += 1`.

Finally, the position `k` represents the total number of values not equal to `val`.

## Implementation

::: code-group

```python
class Solution:
    def removeElement(self, nums: List[int], val: int) -> int:
        k = 0  # Slow pointer, indicating the end index of the new array
        
        for i in range(len(nums)):  # Fast pointer, traverses every element
            if nums[i] != val:
                nums[k] = nums[i]  # Move valid elements to the front
                k += 1  # the length of the valid array increases
        
        return k  # Return the new length (number of valid elements)
```

```javascript
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @param {number} val
 * @return {number}
 */
var removeElement = function(nums, val) {
    let k = 0;

    for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
        if (nums[i] !== val) {
            nums[k] = nums[i];
            k++;
        }
    }

    return k;
};
```

:::

## Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: O(n)
- Space Complexity: O(1)

## Links

[27. Remove Element (English)](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-element/description/)
[27. 移除元素 (Chinese)](https://leetcode.cn/problems/remove-element/description/)
