# 344. Reverse String <Badge type="tip" text="Easy" />

Write a function that reverses a string. The input string is given as an array of characters `s`.

You must do this by modifying the input array **in-place** with `O(1)` extra memory.

> Example 1:  
Input: s = ["h","e","l","l","o"]  
Output: ["o","l","l","e","h"]

> Example 2:  
Input: s = ["H","a","n","n","a","h"]  
Output: ["h","a","n","n","a","H"]

## Approach

**Input**: A character list `s`, representing the original string. It requires an **in-place reverse**.

**Output**: Reverse the order of characters, modifying the input list `s` directly without returning a new value.

This is a classic **opposite-direction two pointers** problem.

We can define two pointers: `left = 0`, `right = len(s) - 1`, pointing to the start and the end of the string respectively.

Then perform the following operations:

* While `left < right`, constantly swap `s[left]` and `s[right]`;
* After each swap, move `left` one step to the right, and move `right` one step to the left;
* When the two pointers meet or cross, it implies the entire string has been completely reversed.

## Implementation

::: code-group

```python
class Solution:
    def reverseString(self, s: List[str]) -> None:
        """
        Do not return anything, modify s in-place instead.
        """
        left, right = 0, len(s) - 1

        # Swap left and right characters while the left pointer is less than the right pointer
        while left < right:
            # Use Python's swap syntax, omitting the temporary variable
            s[left], s[right] = s[right], s[left]

            # Pointers move towards each other
            left += 1
            right -= 1
```

```javascript
/**
 * @param {character[]} s
 * @return {void} Do not return anything, modify s in-place instead.
 */
const reverseString = function(s) {
    let left = 0;
    let right = s.length - 1;

    while (left < right) {
        const temp = s[left];

        s[left] = s[right];
        s[right] = temp;

        left ++;
        right --;
    }
};
```

:::

## Complexity Analysis

- Time Complexity: O(n)
- Space Complexity: O(1)

## Links

[344. Reverse String (English)](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-string/description/)
[344. 反转字符串 (Chinese)](https://leetcode.cn/problems/reverse-string/description/)
